hey everybody its Jason Blaha here and
it's time for part 4 the Monday Q & A so
let's new it
first question M GF / IG f1 for elbow
tinnitus he means the peptides Meccano
growth factor or insulin growth factor 1
and M GF is actually a subtype of igf-1
as far as connective tissue
strengthening goes igf-1 does seem to do
quite well for this in research a
category factor doesn't seem to it all
that I'm aware of it seems to be
specific to the soft tissue the muscle
tissue but generally HGH and HGH
producing peptides tend to do a little
better at this however we get at a big
debate there the other question you come
down to is just because you're
strengthening and repairing connective
tissue faster doesn't mean that you're
removing the inflammation if you're
getting the tendinitis or you're getting
some inflammation you're probably
building up scar tissue there and I
would recommend that if you're building
up scar tissue there you're gonna need
to do some sort of art therapy or trying
to foam roll that to break that scar
tissue up but most importantly no drug
or therapy or anything in the world is
going to make the tendinitis go away if
you're still giving the stimulus that is
causing it you need to find out what you
are doing with your form and with your
training it's probably some technique
you were using that's causing it or it's
a muscle imbalance between say the
opposing muscle groups in a joint
there's something going on that's
causing that irritation and inflammation
and until you eliminate that it's going
to continue to reoccur it's some rate no
matter what you do and once you've
developed it even after you remove that
then that's what therapy things start
becoming useful to remove it but until
then it's going to keep reoccurring no
matter what substances you put in your
body or what sort of therapy you do to
it you've got to figure out what is
causing it in your training stimulus or
your activity all right next question
can loose cardio effect gains and a
natural lifter of calories are kept in a
surplus if so is the effects of
dan shil Greg knuckles who runs the
science and striking blog which you guys
should be able to find pretty easily
with googling it's actually talked about
this in the past looking at the Otters
research because he used to be very anti
cardio like I used to be and he's
actually noted and I was as to whether
he's not sure or not I can't say I know
he competes in the IPF or what we're not
even gonna go there but he is a strong
guy he does promote himself as being a
natural lifter he promotes natural
lifting puts out a lot of science
material for natural lifters he is
personally noted with his own added note
that he noticed when he started adding
the list cardio at first he saw a slight
decline in strength and then over time
he knows he started recovering faster
particularly his leg work and he gets
squat more often recover faster and his
lips started going up this even though
he was still doing the list cardio so
and he's actually put out data showing
it and that does seem to happen so in
the short term adding and a lot of lists
might give you a short-term reduction in
performance but over time the extra work
capacity the extra capitalization and
the muscles of your legs and other
things will tend to give you a higher
recovery rate and it might be beneficial
if particularly if you're doing most of
your list training or you're off base
from lifting it's probably going to
minimally 2-0 impact your recovery and
again over time it may help facilitate a
higher rate of recovery so in short yes
in the short term it could hurt you in
the long term it could benefit you so
it's something that I would recommend
that you do particularly is a drug-free
strength athlete because quite frankly
if you're not using any drugs anything
you can do in the long term to help
speed up recovery is going to be of
great benefit to you in addition to the
actual health benefits and the ability
to eat more food which is always a good
thing all right next question
could you give us an insight into the
mindset of filss do they actually
convince themselves they're drug-free or
do they think they're fanboys or
dumbasses this is interesting because I
have known real-life felts in fact I may
have manufactured substances at one time
for a couple of filter you competed in
natural shows and in my experience a lot
of them are very
self-deceptive and if you gotta remember
guys a lot of bodybuilders themselves
are subject to delusional behavior
because normal people with normal
healthy psychologies rarely get into
something as Extreme as serious or
competitive bodybuilding it takes a
different type of individual to do that
and very often times are either
extremely motivated driven people which
isn't psychologically normal normal
people are not driven to do anything
that hard or they are people who suffer
from major body image dysmorphia
self-image problems and they suffer from
low self-esteem inferiority complexes
things like that and so people who are
like that are going to be very
predisposed to self-deception and a
warped sense of perception and yes a lot
of them see themselves as natural
because I only do two cycles a year or I
only do orals or I only use this amounts
I'm basically really natural because
everyone know there's guys I'm competing
against who call themselves natural who
use a lot more and since I used less
than they do really I'm essentially
natural or oral only I don't eject
anything so I mean I'm really I'm
natural and they really see themselves
that way and then others and let's be
honest yes they really think their fans
are dumbasses and how are they wrong if
they've known that they've seen other
people convinced droves of followers and
they know that they're lying and see
their droves of followers become
convinced to this they don't just think
their fans are dumbasses they know that
they're naive they might actually say
well they really are dumbasses because
they are and that might be a harsh way
to put it because a nicer and more
accurate way to put it might be that
they're just very naive but at some
point you've got to draw the line
between being incredibly naive and
actually really just being a dumbass and
we know something like thirty to fifty
percent of the human population are dumb
asses they're below average intelligence
any bell curve reveal that to you so
unfortunately they do prey upon that
fact and a lot of times it's younger
guys who are very naive and eventually
they they see enough of the world they
come around they become less naive you
these things but they'll always be a new
batch of
coming up and you know the filt spray on
that for their fan base and for their
customer base all right yes well that's
really all I have to say on that today I
hope it's been informative and I will
talk to you guys next time in part 5